---
layout: class
title: Grids & building blocks
week: 3
summary: What we see when we look at a website.
---

# Grids & building blocks

What we see when we look at a website.

Guest Speaker: Alicia DeSantis, The New York Times

Assignment (Due Feb. 13):

Individually
* Go back to the site you diagrammed in week one. Take a second set of screenshots and create a Google Drawing document that shows any major differences in layout or the prominence of features. Show specific, zoomed-in examples of the before/after differences.

With Group:
* Document the major architecture decisions of the site (similar to the first, individual exercise). Take screenshots and diagram the major aspects of the site. Each group should submit one Google Drawing.
* List and elaborate on the 10 user behaviors your group sees as the most promoted, relevant or likely to occur on the site beyond visiting a story page (e.g. read related coverage, follow an author, take an action on social networks, comment, vote, play, filter, etc). Include screen shots of the design prompts for these behaviors.
* Describe 3-5 “composite characters” that would likely use the site you’ve been assigned. What details about their persona would be most salient (age, interests, tech savvy, online habits, geography)? Give your characters names and list 5-7 bullet points about their characteristics, trends, proclivities and/or other sources of information. Each group should submit one Google Document with the behaviors and composite characters.