---
layout: class
title: Learning CSS
week: 3
summary: Selectors, classes, and layout.
---

Selectors, classes, and layout.

– Weekly assignment discussion.<br />
– Lecture: Your journalism career. [Slides](http://joshmkeller.com/columbia/career/).<br />
– Basics of CSS: selectors and layout.<br />
– Lab: Style a recipe. [Start with this text](http://tysone.github.io/2014-columbia-projects/Josh_Keller/week3/exercises.html)

**Assignment** *(Reading — Due Thursday, 2/6)*
– Read chapters 10, 11, and 12 in the HTML&amp;CSS book.

**Assignment** *(Group — Due Thursday, 2/6)*

- Document the major architecture decisions of the site (similar to the first, individual exercise). Take screenshots and diagram the major aspects of the site. Each group should submit one Google Drawing.
- List and elaborate on the 10 user behaviors your group sees as the most promoted, relevant or likely to occur on the site beyond visiting a story page (e.g. read related coverage, follow an author, take an action on social networks, comment, vote, play, filter, etc). Include screen shots of the design prompts for these behaviors.
- Describe 3-5 “composite characters” that would likely use the site you’ve been assigned. What details about their persona would be most salient (age, interests, tech savvy, online habits, geography)? Give your characters names and list 5-7 bullet points about their characteristics, trends, proclivities and/or other sources of information. Each group should submit one Google Document with the behaviors and composite characters. 

